well well scientists have finally solved
the mystery of the Yeti there was once a
man who is hiking in the Himalayas where
he was suddenly snatched up by a white
hairy monster that left only a large
footprint behind it's not a bad campfire
story right we've all heard of the Yeti
but only a few people in the world claim
to have seen one what is this human-like
monster is it dangerous to us and for
that matter does it even exist at all
well Brightside has summed up results
from the latest research on the nature
of the Yeti are you ready for the truth
to be unveiled right before your eyes of
course you are
[Music]
for thousands of years people have been
searching for the Yeti for any proof of
its existence and for the origins of
this creature if you're a Yeti fan
yourself you're not going to love what
we have to tell you but don't take it
personal it's just science a recent
report published in the Journal of the
Proceedings of the Royal Society be not
to be confused with the Society a shows
the research results reached by an
international team of scientists these
bright minds from Norway France Pakistan
Singapore and the USA have done some
serious DNA analysis they gathered 24
priceless specimens of supposed Yeti
origin from museum collections around
the world air-bone skin and fecal
samples hmm Yeti poo taken from the
Tibetan Plateau
we're studied using cutting-edge
scientific technologies and why this
very region surrounded by the harsh
climate of the Himalayan mountains this
isolated region is the highest point in
the world not to mention it's where the
fabled Yeti is believed to come from and
wander wild and free it sure does sound
like a perfectly inaccessible place for
a monster to hide the international
teams research has found that the
legendary Yeti or as some call the
abominable snowman is in fact a bear
more precisely it's been mistaken for
three different extremely rare bear
species the asian black the tibetan
brown and the himalayan brown yes is
Yeti lakhs and the three bears one paw
kept at a monastery as a prized piece of
the Yeti turned out to belong to a black
bear a revered snow monster bone came
from a simple Tibetan brown bear and
finally what was supposed to be a Yeti
tooth actually came from an animal in
the dog family
oops now this wasn't the first time in
the history of science
when Yeti traces were found out to be
from bears this time though the research
was much more credible because of the
impressive amount of genetic material
and the innovative methods used to study
it according to the lead scientist
charlotte lin vest
the research team managed to reconstruct
the mitochondrial genomes of each
specimen mitochondrial whatta well to
put it simply mitochondrial genomes are
a special type of DNA transmitted
maternally that can tell a lot about an
animal's heritage as the researchers
were trying to study the origins of the
Yeti they also managed to make some
important discoveries about the brown
bears evolution they found that there
are in fact two separate brown bear
populations from this region of the
world a period of glaciation 650,000
years ago forced them to split and
formed the Tibetan Plateau bear and the
Himalayan bear the latter of which is
considered critically endangered and
looks vastly different from its Tibetan
cousin lin vez explained that her team
really didn't intend to debunk the yeti
myth it's impossible to completely rule
out that they do live she added good
news for Yeti chasers hey we all love a
head scratching mystery don't we for
those who still believe this Himalayan
creature is real we've put together yet
another list of Yeti facts who would
have thought you can get a Yeti hunting
license counting down from number seven
the name the name Yeti comes from the
Tibetan yay meaning little man-like
animal another name of Tibetan origin is
Michi which means man bear in 1921
journalist Henry Newman goofed up the
translation giving birth to the
abominable snowman nickname Yeti goes by
bat a--to tin Vietnam yaoi
in Australia illness in Mongolia and of
course Bigfoot in North America
well in Saskatchewan Canada he's just
big furry stinky guy a number six the
legend the legend of the Yeti is
thousands of years old
the Himalayan people used to believe
that these hairy snow monsters were
there to serve as the guardians of the
mountains they carried out their watch
at night whistling and growling to scare
off people trying to climb up to the
mountain tops in order to see the gods
yetis could easily kill those curious
uninvited guests with a single swoop of
their paw number five sightings back in
326 BC during his conquest of the Indus
Valley region Alexander the Great heard
some locals talking about the abominable
snowman when he asked them to show him
this beast they quickly explained that
they couldn't bring him a Yeti because
they would simply die in the warm Valley
climate the first ever recorded side of
a Yeti dates back to the 1st century AD
plenty the elder a famous Roman
naturalist mention his work in natural
history that on one of his expeditions
he met a satyr an animal of
extraordinary swiftness apparently the
creature was so fast that it was
impossible to catch the first published
report on a Yeti came out in 1925 this
detailed account was written by a
photographer who was taking part in a
British expedition to the Himalayas
however he failed to get photo evidence
since according to him the Yeti
disappeared too fast hey stand there and
pose babe the first photographs of a
Yeti were printed in newspapers all over
the world in 1951 they were taken by
mountaineer eric shipton who found wide
mysterious 12 to 13 inch long footprints
on a glacier in the himalayas after that
numerous expeditions set off to the
region in search of yetis probably the
most famous of them was that of Sir
Edmund Hill
who claimed he had found Yeti hair on
top of Mount Everest the search for the
Yeti continues and a group of Japanese
adventurers took some pictures of Yeti
footprints in 2008 some enthusiasts are
positive that Yeti brothers and sisters
live in China and Siberia as well number
four
Yeti memo the belief in the Yeti was so
strong in the middle of the 20th century
that even the US State Department joined
the craze in 1959 they issued Foreign
Service dispatch 75 a memo with
regulations on how to deal with a Yeti
upon encountering one hears we're told
to take pictures of it and capture it
but not kill it
they were also supposed to pay a fee and
get an official permit to be out in Yeti
territory although it looks like these
regulations weren't strictly enforced
because tons of people still got a hold
of numerous Yeti bits and pieces which
became parts of museum university and
private collections around the world
number three hunting license would you
like to go hunting for some yetis
apparently if you have 550 bucks you can
officially call yourself a Yeti hunter
the Government of Nepal sells licenses
allowing people to wander through the
woodlands and desolate areas of the
country in search of the Yeti this
started back in the 1950s the time of a
global fascination with the snow
dwelling monster so far no one has been
lucky enough to have captured one but
the Nepalese government has definitely
been lucky enough to make a killing out
of people's attempts Hey look there's
Elvis riding on a Yeti
number two a profitable business the
yetee business is a huge moneymaker in
the Himalayan region in addition to
those hunting permits there's an array
of Yeti themed hotels the most popular
of which is the five-star hotel yak and
Yeti kind of sounds more like a talk
show
there's even a Yeti Airlines that flies
from Kathmandu to the mountains and a
Wildlife Sanctuary in Bhutan whose
primary mission is the conservation of
the Yeti no wonder they're so happy in
Bhutan finally there are Yeti adventure
parks throughout the world we and number
one the Yeti in pop culture it's really
hard to find a person who has never ever
seen a Yeti we're talking about the
cartoon and movie versions of it you
probably remember bumble the abominable
snowman from the classic Rudolph the
red-nosed reindeer once his toothache
was no longer a problem he instantly
became a pretty nice guy
sorry monster helping Santa to decorate
his Christmas tree
we all loved or hated it really depends
the Yeti
in monsters Inc the nine-foot monsters
protecting the entrance to shangri-la
scared the bejeebers out of us in the
mummy Tomb of the Dragon Emperor the
list of Yeti TV and movie appearances
goes on and on we all love him for one
reason or another even though he's
supposed to be scary
the Yeti even made an appearance in
grand theft auto san andreas and grand
theft auto 5 try to find him in the
snows next time you play finally all
Yeti fans are sure to have a Lego
figurine of their favorite big-footed
monster he even appeared in the lego
movie hey is anybody collecting
royalties for this and of course Yeti
locks and the three bear
do you still believe that the Yeti
exists or do you think the scientists
are right and it's actually a kind of
bear feel free to share your opinion in
the comment section below if you like
this video let us know by clicking on
the thumbs up button if this video gets
300,000 likes we'll share more stories
of mysterious creatures inhabiting our
planet like the Californians by the way
if you like mysteries you'll also love
our video about mysteries hidden in
famous paintings here's the link to it
subscribe to our channel to be the first
to see our fun updates always look on
the bright side of life